---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Abilities of Design Patterns
date: 2020-12-03
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---
## Functionality with the cost of Restrictions
Throughout all of the light programming has seen, creating design patterns would be a major step in technological advancement. It's a very simple concept. Sacrifice freedom for coding functionality. By limiting the structure of your code in areas which you don't need, your computational functionality boosts in areas which you need. For this reason there are a myriad of Design Patterns built for varying ranges of purpose. One of the oldest is Object-Oriented Programming(OOP) which has stood the test of time for it's all around sturdy speed and structure. However, when you go into extremely niche fields which require only certain types of computational ability, you begin to see why people part away from OOP.

## Massive Drawback/Advantage Examples
Of course you gain all this power by switching to these new Design Patterns, but it comes with a great cost. The greater programming freedom you acquire, you either lose functionality in areas the Design Pattern isn't made for or it becomes an extreme hassle to learn it. For as much problems you face there will be as much Design Patterns that are created over the years, so learning them will be quite the hassle. 

Compared to OOP the [Factory] Design Pattern has the advantage of returning multiple objects and for it to be from different classes with the drawback of added time/resource complexity. The [Singleton] creates a Global Variable that can be accessed by every class, but Global State is not used frequently because it's not wise to have all components use the same variable; all components should have their own issues to fill, so a global variable would only needed to be used by a few classes. [Observers] just observe the states and actions of a component and are able to trigger change if needed, however bad implementation can result in the complexity added to be extremely heavy and almost system breaking in some situations. [Model-View-Controller] patterns are specifically for large programming parties with varying skillsets. Many people are able to work simultaneously which is a time-saving boon for companies and large-scale development. However, the large scale operation means that there is some complexity downfall and hard learning curve, but the fact that an immense amount of people can work on the project at the same time is more than enough to fill the disadvantage. 
