---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Future Hopes for Learning Software Engineering
date: 2020-08-26
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---
## Simply The Sake of Improving

Learning software engineering the traditional way through classes is nice, but of course there are many other things I have in mind that synergize really well with me learnign programming. Just by a few advanced classes in computer science I can see the immense flaws in the time complexity of my code. Things that are extremely simple become even simpler in the hands of a seasoned professional. The absolute difference is staggerring between me and a seasoned programmer, which is why it's perfect as a learning environment to get the best possible methods to code even faster. Just the pure knowledge itself is nice to be able to code websites and functions efficiently, but there are other things as well other than a job.

## Game Development and Algorithms

Someday I would like to just simply chill doing the things I like doing and pursing the things I want to pursue. One of them is game development. The core that holds the game together is hundreds of lines of interconnecting code that connect everything seamlessly. The core of a good game is good mechanics, good gameplay, and of course it being online. Things like mechanics or gameplay is something that can be finely tweaked or found simply, however when you add internet capabilities into the mix you get an extreme amount of coding complexity. An immense amount of data is being sent and recieved and is infinitely increasing with the issues increasing as well. Time complexities of all functions need to be at the absolute lowest or the lag time will completely destroy the immersive experience of a real time game. Thus, I'd like to learn a great deal of extremely fast algorithms for internet server use.

## Going Towards a Slow Life
Truly, I just want to become a solo game dev that is able to sustain myself finnancially. The first step is learning advanced programming, the next is dedicating an insane amount of time into game dev. I hope that getting out of this class I will boost my programming skills to greater heights so that when I attempt to create games in the future these powerful algorithms that I'll learn will be able to boost my productivity, open doors to previously immensely difficult questions, and take me a step closer to realizing my only dream. The path ahead of uncertainty is demoralizing and hopeless at times, but it's a mere illusion of your fear. Clear doubts and pursue things simply for the sake of pursuit of a higher level. Then everything will come into fruition after great amounts of dedication and hope.
